Hello, everyone, in this lesson, we're going to learn how to manually handle an admin form being
submitted.
Let's jump right into the action and talk about what our first step should be.
So if I navigate to our new word filter, plug in.
The content on this page is being powered by a function that we created, however, we need a way to
run a bit of different code when this form actually gets submitted.
At the moment, if you try to submit the form, you can see that literally nothing happens.
So I think our first step or goal should be to output a little message here that says thank you for
submitting the form whenever a user clicks the save changes button.
Now, there are several ways to make this happen, but let me show you what I would do.
Let's jump into our code and let's find the function that's outputting the HTML for that page.
So I named my function word filter page and inside our form element, I want you to create a new input,
a hidden input.
So let's say input and then hit tab change the type to hidden and then we can give it any name we want.
So just make up a name.
But if you want to be on the same page as me, I'll name it.
How about just submitted and let's give it a value of true.
OK, now let me show you why we just added this and how we're going to leverage it.
How about right below the heading level one?
Let's output a bit of conditional logic.
So let's going to be we can close it right here inside, let's say, if and then for the condition,
type this in with me, dollar sign, underscore post and then square brackets.
So this isn't WordPress specific.
This is just code.
This lets us look at whatever the browser just posted to the server.
So it's an array and inside the square brackets, we want to look for the item in the array called well
we named it just submitted.
So it was just submitted still in the parentheses, but outside the square brackets.
Just say if that equals true.
Now, next, I think this is where things will start to make sense.
So if this is true, we actually don't need curly brackets if you're only going to have one single statement.
So right here we can just say, let's echo out a bit of text that says thank you.
Right.
Just for a quick test, let's save this and test it out.
So if you refresh, we don't see.
Thank you.
But as soon as we try to save or submit the form, we do indeed see.
But as soon as we refresh, it goes away.
So the idea here is we've now created this conditional logic that will only be true if you just submitted
the page.
And perhaps I should have mentioned this is all made possible because our form is simply posting to
itself.
Right.
We didn't even give it an attribute called action with a different U.
RL.
So without that attribute, by default, a form just posts to the same U.
RL that you're already on, which means this exact same file is just going to run again.
So then we're able to look in the servers post object or postering.
OK, now moving on, we don't actually just want to output the words thank you.
Instead, we want to process whatever the user typed into this field.
So instead of Echo, thank you.
Let's get rid of this here and let's create an entirely separate method to handle all of the details
and logic so we can just say dollar sign this dash greater than to look inside it.
And then let's just make up a method name that will create how about Handal form parentheses to actually
call it.
And again, instead of using the array callable syntax, we can use this syntax where we look inside
our class or this instance of the object because we do want to call and execute this method right here,
right now.
OK, let's go create this method names of right above this function.
We can just say function, handle, form.
Now, inside this function, let's do this.
Let's first pretend that there are no malicious people in the world so we can quickly save and load
data to and from our database.
Then once we see that it's up and running, we can go back and add in our security checks.
So just to get started, let's do this inside the function.
We can just use the WordPress function named update option.
Remember, our goal is to save whatever they entered here into the WordPress options table in the database.
So that's what this update option will do with a semicolon here.
So we just give this two arguments.
A comma, B, the first argument is the name of the option in the database that we want to store this
value as so we can make up a name.
Why don't we just call it.
Plug in words to filter, so that's the option name, the second argument is the value that we want
to store in the database.
So we just want to take whatever the user entered into that text field.
So to access that, we can just say dollar sign, underscore post, look inside the array for.
And remember, we named that text area the same thing.
We named it plug in words to filter so you could even just copy and paste that here.
OK, now after this line, but still within the function, let's output a bit of HTML that tells the
user that we've saved their option.
So I would actually just drop out of at the end of this line and then you could enter back into PHP
before our function closes out.
But that means right here where the cursor is now, we can write HTML.
So let's say div dot updated hit tab.
This is a class that WordPress offers to us which will create a bit of green success styling inside
this div.
Let's have a paragraph that says your filtered words were saved with save our code and test it out.
So if we refresh, actually you don't even need to refresh because this page is going to reload as soon
as we submit the form.
But if we enter a few test words and then click save changes, cool, your filtered words were saved
and let's go look in our database.
Remember to look in your database.
If you're using the local app, you can just click on the database tab and then click open admin or
make sure you only have one WordPress site running out of time.
Because I have seen a bug where if you have multiple sites running the admin or will not be for the
site that you think it is that you clicked on anyways within our WordPress database, if we look in
the options table and then click select data.
And then we do need to click on the very last page.
Down at the bottom, plug in words to filter Kool, and there's the value that I entered.
Let's take care of one more detail before we add in a bit of basic security.
So when you reload this page, we should actually load that value from the database, right.
Instead of just this generic placeholder.
So to make that happen, just find the overall function for the page and then find the text area field
element.
And we just want to include a bit of text in between the opening and closing text area fields.
Right.
So this will appear when the user first loads the page.
Now, instead of that example text, we would want to pull the value from the database.
So right here we can just go into HTTP and we can use the git option function.
We named it plug in words to filter.
Now, speaking of adding a bit of security, again, whenever you're pulling a dynamic value from a
database, you want to escape it, because even if there somehow is malicious data in your database,
your front end doesn't need to actively render or distribute it.
So we can just wrap this git option.
I'm going to cut it into my clipboard.
We can wrap it inside of escape text area, call that in these parentheses, paste in your clipboard,
and then we do want to echo that.
Let's give this save if we try this again.
Cool.
It's pulling that value from the database.
And if I change this to red, orange, yellow and save perfect, it's still being saved and loaded from
the database.
Now that it's up and running, let's go back and add a bit of security.
So first of all, within our handle form function, you never want to just immediately save or truly
use or trust a value coming from post.
Right.
It's one thing to use an if statement to check what the value is, but it's a totally different thing
to actually trust that value and inserted into your database.
So I would just take this and cut it from the dollar sign to the closing square bracket and I'm going
to wrap it in a function we can just call sanitize text field in those parentheses, just paste it back
in.
OK, now, next, we want to use something called a nonce in order to protect from cross site request
forgery.
What I mean is if someone's browser sends a post request to this U.
RL, we want to make sure that the user was actually directly on this Web page when they submitted the
form.
If you're curious about how this sort of attack would work, you can just perform a bit of Google research
on a C.
S RF attack.
The good news is that WordPress makes it easy to protect against this type of attack.
So all we need to do in our form may be right below our hidden input.
Just add a new line.
Let's go into PHP.
And WordPress has a function named WP Naans Field.
So we're going to call that.
We're going to give it to arguments so we get to make up both of them.
So first we make up an action name.
Why don't we call this save filter words?
And then the second argument is the name for this nonce value that it's going to create.
Again, we get to make this up.
Let's call it our Norns.
Let's go ahead and save this just so you can inspect in the browser and see what this is going to output.
So if we save that refresh and then use your dev tools to inspect this element, well, right above
the text area, we see our hidden input just submitted.
But right below that, we see another hidden input with the name of our nonce.
And you can see WordPress generated this value for us.
So now in our handle submit function, we just want to check to see if this is a valid nonce value so
WordPress can confirm that this Web page is in fact what submitted things.
So back in our Handal form function, let's take everything inside the body of the function and temporarily
cut it into our clipboard.
We will want this back in just a moment, but let's cut it for now.
Let me get rid of this unnecessary opening tag now.
So we just have an empty handle form function.
And what we want to do is wrap it in an if else statement.
So if parentheses curly brackets, be sure to add the ls curly brackets in the if block curly brackets,
you can go ahead and paste in your clipboard.
Let me fix the indentation and remember that at the end of the update option we were dropping out.
So then I would just enter back into PPY here.
OK, now in the condition for our statement we just want to value.
A date or verify or check that Knoxfield so WordPress gives us a function called WP Verify Naans parentheses
to call it, we give it to arguments.
So A comma B the first is just that nonce value that we saw in our browser.
Right.
So this actual string of text, we can access that from the servers, post object or post array.
And we named it our N, so we would just say instead of a placeholder dollar sign, underscore post,
look inside that array for something called our.
OK, the second argument instead of B is the action name that we made up now down in our code.
And remember I chose the Made-Up name of save filter words.
So that's what we would use instead of the B placeholder.
OK, and while we're at it, it's better to be safe than sorry in our if check in between these two
closing parentheses.
Let's add another condition that we're checking for so we can just say and we want to make sure that
the current user can parentheses to call that and let's just say manage options.
So all together, we're checking the nonce and we want to make sure that the current user has sort of
admin privileges.
If that's the case, then we can actually process and use their data otherwise.
Else, let's show an error message.
So I just want to show a bit of HTML here.
So let's exit here, go back into PHP here and then let's have a div with a class of error set tab inside
the div.
Let's have a paragraph that reads, sorry you do not have permission to perform that action.
Let's give this to save and test it out, so if we refresh and we try to save this blue, green, yellow
cool, it works.
However, if I reload and go into my dev tools, if I delete that nonce input, so just click on it,
push, delete.
Now, if I try to submit the form, we change the value first.
Orange, purple, green.
If I submit cool we see.
Sorry you do not have permission and those values are not actually saved.
Perfect.
And that's going to bring this lesson to a close now that our form is actually up and running and we
are successfully saving and loading data to and from the database and we've added a bit of basic security.
Well, now in our next lesson, we can actually build the true feature of this plug in.
So we'll filter our blog post content to look for any of these comma separated words and replace them
or filter them out.
Let's keep the momentum rolling and I will see you then.